# Anime-Recommendation-System-using-ML-Algorithms
Anime Recommendation System implemented using the new updated database which has more animes and has less missing values.

Gone are those days when we had to wait for 24hours to watch the next episode of our favorite series. Platforms like Netflix, Hulu, Amazon prime etc. are nowadays releasing movies and entire TV shows at a go, which we can watch anytime, anywhere. Moreover, when we watch a particular movie, for example Star Wars, it suggests movies that we may like, say Star Trek or Pacific Rim. These movie suggestions are often similar to the one’s we have watched with respect to either the genre or the ratings and also based on what other users, with similar interests, might have watched. Moreover, on large databases, users may not know what to search for and they could easily miss movies or series that they could have liked. Recommender systems aid users in exploring these movies based on movie-movie similarity as well as user to user preferences. It’s like having a friend with amazing taste, which 90% of the times doesn’t err while making suggestions because it gives priority to our viewing preferences, our likes and dislikes. As per Google developers’ recommendation systems course, 40% of app installs on Google Play come from recommendations and 60% of watch time on YouTube comes from recommendations. This is the power of recommender systems and we seek to harness it for our project.
Since a lot of research and work exists on movies, songs etc., we would be tapping into an uncharted territory, where there is a dire need for good recommender systems that would help the sellers and consumers alike. At the inception stage of our project, we will start by performing exploratory data analysis on our business problem to understand various features of the dataset which impacts the decision making and decipher the shortcomings of the data such as missing values, outdated entries etc. which have hampered the data analysis so far. Post data pre-processing we will apply two types of recommender systems, First one being unsupervised learning based method called collaborative filtering (both item-item and user-user based collaborative filtering) and is computed using cosine similarities and the second one is a supervised learning based method called content-based filtering, and is computed using K Nearest Neighbors. For content-based filtering, we will experiment with different subsets of features and observe the results. For collaborative filtering, we will be computing the Root Mean Square Error and a new, less explored metric called Coverage, to evaluate the system. Furthermore, we will compare which of these two methods are more effective for making the right recommendations and discuss the problematic areas we encountered during our research and suggest possible areas of improvement.
